Okay, so you got a rough
idea of the kind of content,
it's probably just a bullet list.
Like bullets of questions, bullets of
functionality, bullets of whatever, so
you got that.
Now what do you do with it?
Well, the first thing to realize,
is that can get pretty damn big,
right, that list.
Especially if you work on international
websites like I tend to do with many
different products across many
different parts of the organization.
And you're trying to deal with different
user groups, going different paths,
I mean, obviously you don't tend
to deal with it all in one go.
But even if you're just tending
to deal with one part of it,
it can get really complicated.
But even on a smaller side you can
end up with a not insignificant list.
So we need to basically now prioritize it,
right?
Because not all questions, not all
objections, not all tasks are equal in
people's minds, they care a lot
more about some things and others.
And we need to highlight those.
We need to make sure that that
functionality, that content,
those answers, whatever, have floated to
the top and are quickly identifiable.
So the way that I tend to do
that is through something
called top task analysis.
And I'm not gonna get into a huge amount
here because it's a big old subject.
There's a great article on
the list apart website,
where the guy who came up with this talks
you through the process, how to do it.
So I've got link in the slides,
you can go and check it out yourself.
But very briefly the summary of it,
is you basically get users to prioritize,
right?
You get them to say which of
the various tasks, objections,
questions, matter most to them, all right?
So that means when you start
wireframing you know, okay,
at a glance they need to be able
to see this, this, this, and this.
And it really kinda helps
provide focus to where different
functionality is placed,
and how it's organized.
The other thing that kinda, a little bit
of a tangent on this, is that something
can be important to somebody within
a certain context at a certain moment.
So, for example,
let's say in your insight,
I'm now coming back to your example
a lot because you raised it.
But you talked about these micro
projects where you're looking at
a particular thing.
I would still carry out a very lightweight
top task analysis in a situation
like that, or at least think it through
in terms of what was most prioritized,
because, let's say you're
updating a form again.
Okay, so somebody's got a question
that's really important to them.
But that doesn't necessarily mean that
question needs to be answered at the very
top of the form, cuz that might not be
when it comes into someone's head, right?
They might not think of that.
For example, what are you gonna
do with my email address?
They won't think about that until
they get to the field that says,
enter your email address.
So being contextually aware is quite
important as well in those kinds
of situations.
But looking more kind of holistically
on a bigger website scale,
once you've kind of prioritized
your content or content areas,
and I'll say what you need to
do is start organizing that.
And the way that I tend to do
that is with card sorting.
When I've got the budget and
time to do that, so
instead of me guessing as to how content
should be organized and structured,
I get some users to organize it and
structure it for me.
There's a great tool that's free at
the moment called uxmetrics.com.
That does open consulting,
and clouds card sorting, and
to explain the difference very quickly.
Open card sorting basically
allows people to organize your
different content areas in
any way that suits them.
With closed cards sorting, they have to
organize it within predefined buckets.
So closed card sorting is better when
you're trying to validate a navigation
you've already come up with,
while open card sorting is better for
getting initial ideas.
It's a really great tool, it talks you
through the process of how to do it.
Essentially, basically users just
drag stuff into different groups.
And then once they find those different
groups, they just basically name the group
whatever they want to name it, and
they can create multiple groups.
And then you could analyze that data,
just to give you some kind of inspiration
into how to organize that,
how to structure your website.
It's not gonna do it for you,
you're still gonna have to
make some educated decisions.
But it's a really great way of
saving a lot of internal discussion.
Because one of the big problems that
you come across when you're working on
information architecture,
which is what we're talking about here,
is it becomes about ego and
politics, right?
I wanna be on the top level section
because my team is the most
important team.
Obviously they don't say it like that,
but that's the underlying message, right?
Or we wanna call our top section,
top level product section, Gizmo 2.4.
Well, nobody knows what Gizmo 2.4 is, so
do we really want that in the navigation?
So if you test and do card sorting,
then you've got evidence that
voids all of that kind of stuff.
So yeah, it does take a little bit more
effort and a little bit more time,
but it's really worth doing to avoid that.
Next thing I do is I then
map that content onto pages.
So I've got my navigation,
it's done, look pretty.
I've got the navigation running across
the side, I've got the sub navigation down
the, sorry, main navigation across
the top, sub navigation down the side.
And then I'm just putting bullet
points of the questions and
things that need to be
raised on that page, right?
So now I've got a map of my app,
my website,
my whatever of how it all kind of fits
together without any attempt to design.
So this is even before you do a wireframe,
really.
And like I said, I mentioned earlier
that I just kinda throw something like
this together in notion.
But you could use Google Docs, anything
that can interlink pages will do it or
just do it in plain HTML.
We could go old school.
So just helps you now to see the structure
of the site however links together.
In theory,
you could test that if you wanted to.
You could test, can people navigate it,
can people find it?
But it is a great way of kind of
visualizing that cuz you can show your
client this, you can show your
stakeholders this, right?
To minimize the surprise later on,
you could show them the research,
you could discuss it with them.
You could get them involved in things
like, for example, that brainstorming
workshop of coming up with questions,
and objections, and functionality.
Start building them into the process.
So we now wanna move a bit closer to being
able to actually do some wireframing.
So the next thing is to start
chunking some of your content.
So one of the big problems that
you'll find when you're working on
things like site structures,
is that you tend to start adding more and
more things to navigations cuz
everybody wants more and more stuff.
She maybe start off with four top
level sections, then it becomes five,
then it becomes six, and
then it becomes eight.
Product categories are another great
example of this on e-commerce sites
that get longer and longer.
Drop down menus on forms are another
example where they get longer and longer.
So this is kind of a fundamental problem
you need to deal with when it comes to
navigation and that kind of thing.
So, the problem is that we can only hold
about four things in our
short term memory, right?
So that's why your credit card, if
you've ever looked at your credit cards,
I better get my credit card out and
show it on camera.
That would have been a really bad idea.
Well, if you look at your credit
card number it's 16 digits long and
it's broken into four sets of four,
because we can only have four
numbers in our head at a time.
So when you get into navigation
that's got like 20, 30, 40,
categories in or something like that,
it's just, forget it, it's ridiculous.
So the way you get around
this is by chunking it,
just like the credit card numbers
chunked into four sets of four.
So I tend to do that with content as well
as we're starting to think about content.
So beginning with navigation.
So if I'm working on a website like
the one that's on the screen now,
I can split the navigation
into different groups.
So there's one group that is
dedicated to bout the company.
There's another one that's the resources
that the company provides, and
then the third one,
which is kind of utilitarian stuff.
So we can do that kind of thing in our
navigation to help break things up.
And then also even within
my content itself, right?
That's where you think about a page,
and the pages structure and
all the things you wanna communicate.
I tend to think in terms
of content blocks, right?
And this is quite an important
thing to communicate to any content
creator that you're working with.
Cuz a lot of people who aren't
familiar with writing for
the web will produce reams
of copy [LAUGH], right?
Like they're writing an article, and
that's absolutely useless online.
People only read about 25%
of the copy on a page.
And so, they scan it,
they don't read it word for word.
So what we wanna do is break up
our copy into content blocks.
So let's say we've got our
list of benefits, right?
We identify some benefits,
or some questions,
or whatever kind of content you've got.
You wanna display each of those
as a separate content block.
And that content block normally consists
of a heading, maybe a short description
that explains what that benefit is,
what that feature is or whatever.
And then maybe a link to more information.
So if you're working on a content
heavy website, start talking very
early with your stakeholders about
content blocks and this concept.
Because it stopped them delivering
content that really is inappropriate for
the website.
And I tend to show them
examples like this.
You can go to pretty much any website,
this happens to be the Stripe website.
And you can see how basically they've got
content blocks within content blocks here,
where you've got kind of a headings for
each content block.
You've got short description,
a link, and an image, right?
So as you start to draft up content,
whether you're doing it on
behalf of your users or, sorry,
your stakeholders, or whether you
are working with a content creator.
Start thinking in terms of content blocks,
start thinking in terms of chunking.
And I put all of that into notion,
my really crappy kind of
wireframe thing that just shows
the basic structure of the site.
And only once I've done that do I
really start to wireframe pages